So before we go on and
talk about places where we can use array,
wanna talk about another
fancy piece of syntax.
Sorry, this is maybe a little tricky to
see, but what we're gonna talk about now
is another piece of fancy JavaScript
syntax called destructuring.
So we've seen some fancy syntax already,
right?
We've seen arrow functions, that's fancy.
We've seen conditional operators with
the question mark, and the colon,
that's fancy.
We've seen the backticks with the dollar
sign curly braces, the string templates.
JavaScript has a lot of syntax.
Unlike maybe some other languages
you've learned where let's say,
parentheses are the entire language,
[LAUGH] like closure script, for example,
maybe if you've seen those.
JavaScript has a lot of different things
that we can do with, for example,
curly braces.
And so what what destructuring is,
is it's a syntax that we can use to
break down an object like a unicorn,
for example, into the parts that make
it up, like a horn, a tail and a body.
And this is a cute illustration of
destructuring from my friend Sarah.
Okay, so destructuring is essentially,
we can think of it as a fancy way of
declaring multiple variables at once.
And/or a way you can think about
is like extracting the properties
from an object and making them
variables in our current scope.
So for example,
remember our spices objects,
each spiceGirls object had a name
property and a nickname property.
So I don't think I have my spices anymore,
but let me go make it.
So we had clear we had got
something like spices equals and
then an array of objects
that looked like name Emma,
nickname Babe and so on and so forth.
I just need one for right now.
So if I use this weird
syntax that sort of looks
like an object on the left hand side
of an equals assignment operator.
This right here, it's not an object,
it's sort of an indication
of the shape of an object,
the properties of an object.
And what this does is it's going to
essentially say, all in this one line,
hey, JavaScript take the object
at index 0 in the spices array.
Pull out the value of its name property
and assign that to a new variable name.
Pull out the value of its
nickname property and
assign that to a new variable nickname.
So, when I run this,
and now I ask for name,
name is now the val pointing to
the value from within that object.
And similarly, so is nicknamed pointing
to the corresponding value there?
Now, it might seem like a little
strange to do it this way,
but this ends up being handy
when you have, for example,
an object with lots of
different properties and
maybe you only care about one of them or
a couple of them, let's say.
And you say, I don't actually wanna,
capture the whole object as,
spiceGirl and then do spiceGirl.name
equal spiceGirls name.
I don't want to have to do all of
that work of getting the object and
then using dots to get
into its properties,
this is just basically a shorthand for
all of that.
So what we can do, all right,
well I don't have a spices to here,
but what we can do is say,
I don't know, I'll just call this Nick.
And I'm just gonna keep working with 0
cuz I only have one spice at the moment,
everyone else has left the group.
[LAUGH] What I can do is,
sorry, I can't say Nick there,
I can just say nickname because
the name of the property here
can be then essentially pulled
out into its own variable.
Now here it's probably not gonna like
it cuz I already declared a nickname.
But what I can do is just reassign to
that value, I'm sorry, to that variable.
No, I can't, no I can't, I need the let.
Let me reload and
copy my thing here, sorry, okay?
All right, start over.
All right, so now,
if I to let, just nickname
is all that I care about equals spices[0].
I have sort of ignored the name, so right
now if I reference nickname that works.
But name is, I don't know what that is,
that might be something old.
But essentially what it's
doing is just saying,
hey, JavaScript I don't care about
the other properties on this object,
I just care about that nickname
property within the object.
Okay, so destructuring lets
us kind of quickly only grab
certain properties we care
about out of an object.
Question.
>> Do the variables inside of the curly
braces need to match the order that they
are in the array.
>> Great question.
Let's find out.
Variables, what order they are in?
Are they in orders?
Let's find out.
Okay, so if I do let nickname,
name in my curlies equal spices[0].
Nickname now is still Baby and
name is still Emma.
No, the order does not matter.
Actually, in JavaScript object
properties are not ordered.
Unlike arrays, where items are ordered,
object properties are not
guaranteed to be in a particular order
in JavaScript even though usually,
we will see them kinda logged out or
printed out by the browser's kind of
viewer here in the order
that we declared them.
There is not actually a concept of
ordering to object properties in
JavaScript.
So as far as destructuring is concerned,
it does not know or
care what order they were originally in.
Nor does it know or care what order
you put them in in your destructuring
assignment because all
it cares about is that,
it has to assign a new variable
to each of those things.
And similarly in our scope,
like variables don't have an order.
Similarly within an object
properties don't have an order.
But great point, great question.
So no order does not matter.
You can write them in whatever
order feels good to you.
Okay, another fun thing is that
we can destructure arrays too.
So for example, in our original spices
array, whenever arrays do have an order,
the objects were structured so
that it was like the baby spice object,
the ginger spice object and
so on and so forth.
And what I can do is use the square
brackets syntax to assign
a variable name to each element
in order in that array.
So let's take an example with, I don't
know, we can just use numbers for now.
One, two, and three could become names
now for an array of numbers like this.
So that if I asked for one,
now I get the number 1, 3, 3, and so on.
And in this case,
order does matter, right?
So if I have six, five, four for
a new array that has 4, 5,
6, JavaScript does not have any property
names to go off of here in an array,
all it has to go off of is the order,
all ut has to off of is the index,
the numerical indices and
the order that things are.
So it's just gonna map the first to the
first, and the second to the second, and
the third to the third.
And so now we're gonna have
confusingly 6 be 4 and 4 be 6.
So order does matter when we're
just structuring arrays, but
it doesn't add over to
structuring objects.
But the fun thing is that when
we're destructuring arrays,
we can ignore any extra
values that we don't need.
So we can, if we only care about
the first couple of things in my array,
I can just ignore the rest of
the array and it won't be captured.
So for example I can do, let,
I don't know 10, 20,
Be on the left hand side
of a much longer array.
And now 10 and 20 are the first two
things, if I can spell them, but 30 and
40 just got ignored, they didn't get
pulled out into our destructuring.
And what's actually fun is that I can
use commas if I wanna skip things in
the array.
So if I can say,
I don't care about the first thing,
I don't care about the second thing,
I care about 30.
And then I don't care
about the fourth thing.
This should,
if I haven't typed anything wrong,
pull out the third thing in the array
here, because of my two commas.
So this can be a handy way, again,
to just like grab out only
a certain amount of information.
I will say that though we can do
this with arrays, it's really handy.
I don't particularly use
the skipping commas,
all that much occasionally,
you will find this come in handy.
But what we often do, is if we know that
we get back an array of three things and
we're gonna need to then go and
say all right,
variable 1 equals array index 0,
variable 2 equals array index 1.
We can save ourselves all those lines
of code by just doing destructuring.
And especially with objects is
super handy, especially when you're
working with objects like responses,
where was our response?
Is it still around?
No, it's not.
When you're working with objects
with lots of properties on them,
like document, for example,
has like 8 bajillion gajillion properties.
And so if I just wanna get let's say,
[LAUGH] let (title) = document.
I should get, my gosh, if I can type it,
the title of the document,
just that property.
And not all of the other gajillions of
properties that I don't care about.
So it's very handy when working
with objects and lots of stuff.
And a lot of the times API's will return
us back objects once we've awaited our
promises and all that stuff and parsed
out our bodies slammed our bodies down.
The objects that we get back from API's
depending on what API you're working with,
sometimes they have like tons
of different information and
you don't care about much of it, you just
care about one thing, maybe or two things.
You can pull them out
with this destructuring.
Cool.
And fun fact are spread syntax that
dot dot can also be used to capture,
instead of expanding and spread.
Instead expanding an array,
it can be used to collect into an array
from all of the rest of the values
that we don't care about.
So like if I have, let one and
then others be 1, 2, 3,
4, oops, Uno and
otros for example, can be 1, 2, 3, 4.
So now we uno is just the value 1 and
otros is 2, 3 and 4 in an array.
So this can be handy if you're,
maybe I don't care about it right now but
maybe I will wanna drill into
the rest of the data later.
You can also do that
with array destructuring.
So this is just some fancy syntax
to put in your JavaScript toolbox.
And most importantly,
you don't need to do this, you can always,
just go through and say, let uno equal
numbers index 0, and so on and so forth.
That's totally valid, this is just maybe
something that you might run into if
you're reading other people's code.
Or it might be something if you
wanna really flex your syntax
muscles might be something
you wanna try out.
And especially for objects,
it can be really handy, and
a quick way to get
the values you care about.